README.md, before:

# five-bells-integration-test

> A module to help with testing Five Bells components against each other

## Introduction

This module is used by the CI tests of the different Five Bells components. This module is installed with each component as a dev dependency and run during continuous integration. When run, it installs the other components and then tests them against the local working tree of the current component.

## Installation

```sh
npm install --save-dev five-bells-integration-test
```

## Usage (with Docker)
Get the Docker image for the Five Bells integration tests,
and save yourself a lot of configuration and slow building steps on
your laptop:
```sh
docker pull michielbdejong/five-bells-integration-test
```

That pulls in a certified build from Docker's hub, but if you like to
build the Docker imager yourself then just do `docker build .` instead.

You are probably not so interested in seeing the integration tests run
on the master branches of the various repos as they were when this
Docker image was built, because you can already watch that on circleci,
but just so you know, the command for that would be:
```sh
docker run michielbdejong/five-bells-integration-test
```

So instead, go inside the container and run the tests interactively:
```sh
docker run -it --rm michielbdejong/five-bells-integration-test /bin/bash
$ cd integration-test/ilp-kit ; git status ; git fetch origin ; git checkout origin/my-awesome-improvement-that-I-want-to-test ; cd ../..
$ vim src/tests/index.js # add some debug statement to that failing `beforeEach` hook
$ vim integration-test/node_modules/ilp-connector/src/lib/route-builder.js +123 # add a console.log statement to see how that error is caused
$ ./src/bin/integration test advanced connector_first # run only the 'advanced' and 'connector_first' integration test
$ ./src/bin/integration test # run all the integration tests
```

Repositories tested by the integration tests:
* ilp-kit
* ilp-kit-cli
* ilp
* ilp-connector
* ilp-routing
* ilp-plugin-virtual
* ilp-plugin-settlement-adapter
* ilp-plugin-bells
* five-bells-ledger
* five-bells-shared
* five-bells-condition

The branch-matching done by `integration-loader` is quite nifty, although sometimes you will have to read the code to know exactly what is going on.
Roughly, what it does is:
* if the branch in the `/app` folder is `master`, then test all master branches against each other.
* if the branch is something else, try to check out that branch name on the different repositories as well. This allows you to refactor across repositories!
* when run as `npm run integration` in the ilp-kit repository (not using this Docker image), it will load appropriate the versions of components, as specified by ilp-kit's package.json file. This allows the master branches of different components to be ahead of the ilp-kit master branch, which can be useful when we are working on a big change that will break the Interledger network. Updating ilp-kit can be postponed until all the components have been tested thoroughly.

To check out a cross-repo branch, for instance `mj-currency_scale`, do the following inside the container:
```sh
$ cd /app
$ git branch mj-currency_scale
$ git checkout mj-currency_scale
$ ./node_modules/.bin/integration-loader
$ src/bin/integration setup
$ cd integration-test/ilp-kit
$ npm rebuild node-sass; npm run build /app/integration-test/ilp-kitnpm run build # this is necessary because running npm install as root causes it to skip the postinstall hook
$ cd ../..
$ ps auxwww # kill any npm/node processes still running from previous runs
$ src/bin/integration test connector_first
$ src/bin/integration test
```
You will probably need to manually keep track of which version of which package is installed in `/app/node_modules`, `/app/integration-test/node_modules`, and `/app/integration-test/ilp-kit/node_modules`
to make sure you are testing the versions you want to. Of course, you can also still run the integration tests on circleci.com, or direcyly on your laptop, without Docker.

## Usage (without Docker)

In any five-bells module which has `five-bells-integration-test` installed, simply run:

``` sh
npm run integration
```

This is enabled by the following config in the `package.json`:

``` json
{
  "scripts": {
    "integration": "integration test"
  }
}
```

## Tests

The five-bells-integration-test module can be tested on its own:

```sh
npm install
npm test
```

Commit message:

advise cross-repo branch testers to build their own Docker image for that branch

README.md, after:

# five-bells-integration-test

> A module to help with testing Five Bells components against each other

## Introduction

This module is used by the CI tests of the different Five Bells components. This module is installed with each component as a dev dependency and run during continuous integration. When run, it installs the other components and then tests them against the local working tree of the current component.

## Installation

```sh
npm install --save-dev five-bells-integration-test
```

## Usage (with Docker)
Get the Docker image for the Five Bells integration tests,
and save yourself a lot of configuration and slow building steps on
your laptop:
```sh
docker pull michielbdejong/five-bells-integration-test
```

That pulls in a certified build from Docker's hub, but if you like to
build the Docker imager yourself then just do `docker build .` instead.

You are probably not so interested in seeing the integration tests run
on the master branches of the various repos as they were when this
Docker image was built, because you can already watch that on circleci,
but just so you know, the command for that would be:
```sh
docker run michielbdejong/five-bells-integration-test
```

So instead, go inside the container and run the tests interactively:
```sh
docker run -it --rm michielbdejong/five-bells-integration-test /bin/bash
$ cd integration-test/ilp-kit ; git status ; git fetch origin ; git checkout origin/my-awesome-improvement-that-I-want-to-test ; cd ../..
$ vim src/tests/index.js # add some debug statement to that failing `beforeEach` hook
$ vim integration-test/node_modules/ilp-connector/src/lib/route-builder.js +123 # add a console.log statement to see how that error is caused
$ ./src/bin/integration test advanced connector_first # run only the 'advanced' and 'connector_first' integration test
$ ./src/bin/integration test # run all the integration tests
$ psql postgres://postgres@localhost # have a look at the databases
```

Repositories tested by the integration tests:
* ilp-kit
* ilp-kit-cli
* ilp
* ilp-connector
* ilp-routing
* ilp-plugin-virtual
* ilp-plugin-settlement-adapter
* ilp-plugin-bells
* five-bells-ledger
* five-bells-shared
* five-bells-condition

The branch-matching done by `integration-loader` is quite nifty, although sometimes you will have to read the code to know exactly what is going on.
Roughly, what it does is:
* if the branch in the `/app` folder is `master`, then test all master branches against each other.
* if the branch is something else, try to check out that branch name on the different repositories as well. This allows you to refactor across repositories!
* when run as `npm run integration` in the ilp-kit repository (not using this Docker image), it will load appropriate the versions of components, as specified by ilp-kit's package.json file. This allows the master branches of different components to be ahead of the ilp-kit master branch, which can be useful when we are working on a big change that will break the Interledger network. Updating ilp-kit can be postponed until all the components have been tested thoroughly.

To check out a cross-repo branch, for instance `mj-currency_scale`, the easiest approach may be to create a branch on the five-bells-integration-test repo,
and create your own Docker image for your cross-repo branch:
```sh
$ git branch mj-currency_scale
$ git checkout mj-currency_scale
$ docker build .
```

But you can also try to do the following, inside an existing five-bells-integration-test container:

```sh
$ cd /app
$ git branch mj-currency_scale
$ git checkout mj-currency_scale
$ ./node_modules/.bin/integration-loader
$ src/bin/integration setup
$ cd integration-test/ilp-kit
$ npm rebuild node-sass; npm run build /app/integration-test/ilp-kitnpm run build # this is necessary because running npm install as root causes it to skip the postinstall hook
$ cd ../..
$ ps auxwww # kill any npm/node processes still running from previous runs
$ src/bin/integration test connector_first
$ src/bin/integration test
```
You will probably need to manually keep track of which version of which package is installed in `/app/node_modules`, `/app/integration-test/node_modules`, and `/app/integration-test/ilp-kit/node_modules`
to make sure you are testing the versions you want to. Of course, you can also still run the integration tests on circleci.com, or direcyly on your laptop, without Docker.

## Usage (without Docker)

In any five-bells module which has `five-bells-integration-test` installed, simply run:

``` sh
npm run integration
```

This is enabled by the following config in the `package.json`:

``` json
{
  "scripts": {
    "integration": "integration test"
  }
}
```

## Tests

The five-bells-integration-test module can be tested on its own:

```sh
npm install
npm test
```
